Basic Linux Commands
Next, let’s dig into Kali Linux usage
and explore some basic Linux commands.
Man Pages
Most Linux command-line executable
programs provide
a formal piece of documentation called
manual or man pages.
Man pages generally have a name, a
synopsis, a description
of the command’s purpose, and the
corresponding options,
parameters, or switches.
Man pages contain not only
information about user commands,
but also documentation regarding
system administration commands
programming interfaces, and more.
If you’re unsure which manual section
you want to read from,
you can do a keyword search.
For example, let’s assume we are
interested in learning a bit more
about the format of the
/etc/passwd file.
Typing man passwd at the command
line shows information
regarding the passwd command, which
is not what we are interested in.
However, if we use the -k option,
we can perform a keyword search.
We can further narrow the search
with the help of a regular expression.
It’s important to understand
regular expressions,
so refer to the lab guide for
additional resources and information.
We can now look at the exact passwd
manual page we’re interested in
by referencing the appropriate section.
Man pages are typically the quickest way
to find documentation on a given command
so take some time to explore them in a
bit more detail.
apropos
With the apropos command, we can
search the list of man page descriptions
for a possible match based on
a keyword.
Although this is a bit crude, it’s often
helpful for finding a particular command
based on the description.
Suppose that we want to partition a hard
drive but can’t remember
the name of the command.
We can figure this out with an apropos
search for partition.
Notice that apropos seems to perform
the same function as man -k.
This is because they are, in fact,
equivalent.
Listing Files
The ls command prints a basic
file listing to the screen.
We can modify the output results
with various wildcards.
The -a option is used to display
all files (including hidden ones)
and the -1 option displays each
file on a single line,
which is very useful for automation.
Moving Around
Linux does not use Windows-style
drive letters.
Instead, all files, folders, and devices
are children of the root directory,
represented by the “forward slash”
character.
We can use the cd command followed by a
path to change to the specified directory.
The pwd command will print the current
directory,
which is helpful if you get lost.
Running cd followed by the tilde
character
will return to the home directory.
Creating Directories
The “make directory” command followed
by the name of a directory
creates the specified directory.
Directory names in Linux may contain
spaces, but this is considered bad form
since spaces are used to separate
commands and parameters.
Consider this example:
As we can see, a directory named with
spaces can create confusion
unless we wrap it in quotes.
Instead, many users choose hyphens or
underscores instead of spaces
in directory and file names:
These characters also make auto-completes
(which executed with the tab key)
much easier.
We can create multiple directories at
once with the incredibly useful -p option,
which will also create any required
parent directories.
This can be combined with brace expansion
to efficiently create complex directory
structures.
For example, let’s create a directory
called test and within that directory,
create three sub-directories called
recon, exploit, and report:
Again, refer to the lab guide for more
information
about regular expressions and brace
expansions.